restore play on roku docs (#35196)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/roku.markdown

      media_content_type: channel
```

## Play on Roku

> The `media_player.play_media` service may be used to send media URLs (primarily videos) for direct playback on your device.

Reviewer: Services are now known as actions.

```suggestion
The `media_player.play_media` action may be used to send media URLs (primarily videos) for direct playback on your device.
```

> This feature previously made use of the built-in PlayOnRoku application that was available before Roku OS 11.5. You can also configure a third-party application that supports the PlayOnRoku API via the `Play Media Roku Application ID` option.

Author: ```suggestion
This feature makes use of the PlayOnRoku API. If you are using an older Roku OS (pre-11.5), the defaults of this integration should just work. Alternatively, you can configure a third-party application that supports the PlayOnRoku API via the `Play Media Roku Application ID` option.
```

> This feature previously made use of the built-in PlayOnRoku application that was available before Roku OS 11.5. Since Home Assistant v2024.10.3, you can set a third-party application that supports the PlayOnRoku API via the `Play Media Roku Application ID` option.

Reviewer: We don't keep a changelog in our documentation. Our documentation should always reflect the latest version of Home Assistant. We therefore do not need to mention the version here.

> This feature previously made use of the built-in PlayOnRoku application that was available before Roku OS 11.5. Since Home Assistant v2024.10.3, you can set a third-party application that supports the PlayOnRoku API via the `Play Media Roku Application ID` option.

Author: ```suggestion
This feature previously made use of the built-in PlayOnRoku application that was available before Roku OS 11.5. You can also configure a third-party application that supports the PlayOnRoku API via the `Play Media Roku Application ID` option.
```

> This feature previously made use of the built-in PlayOnRoku application that was available prior to Roku OS 11.5. Since Home Assistant v2024.10.3, you can set a third-party application that supports the PlayOnRoku API via the `Play Media Roku Application ID` option.

Author: ```suggestion
This feature previously made use of the built-in PlayOnRoku application that was available before Roku OS 11.5. Since Home Assistant v2024.10.3, you can set a third-party application that supports the PlayOnRoku API via the `Play Media Roku Application ID` option.
```

The following third-party applications have been tested with this integration:

- [Media Assistant](https://channelstore.roku.com/details/625f8ef7740dff93df7d85fc510303b4/media-assistant) (ID: 782875)

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description | Example |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- | ------- |
| `entity_id` | no | Target a specific media player. | 

> | `media_content_id` | no | A media URL. | http://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/gtv-videos-bucket/sample/BigBuckBunny.mp4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `media_content_id` | no | A media URL. | `http://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/gtv-videos-bucket/sample/BigBuckBunny.mp4`
```

| `media_content_type` | no | A media type. | `url`

> | `extra.format` | no | A media format. Should be one of `mp4` (supports mov and m4v), `mp3`, `hls`, `ism` (smooth streaming), `dash` (MPEG-DASH), `mkv`, `mka`, `mks` | `mp4`

Author: ```suggestion
| `extra.format` | no | A media format. It should be one of `mp4` (supports mov and m4v), `mp3`, `hls`, `ism` (smooth streaming), `dash` (MPEG-DASH), `mkv`, `mka`, `mks` | `mp4`
```

| `extra.name` | yes | A name for the media. | Big Buck Bunny
| `extra.thumbnail` | yes | A thumbnail URL for the media. | 
| `extra.artist_name` | yes | The name of the media artist. | Blender

### Example
```yaml

> action:
>   - service: media_player.play_media

Reviewer: ```suggestion
actions:
  - action: media_player.play_media
```

    target:
      entity_id: media_player.roku
    data:

>       media_content_id: http://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/gtv-videos-bucket/sample/BigBuckBunny.mp4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      media_content_id: "http://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/gtv-videos-bucket/sample/BigBuckBunny.mp4"
```

      media_content_type: url
      extra:

>         format: mp4
>         name: Big Buck Bunny

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        format: "mp4"
        name: "Big Buck Bunny"
```

```

## Camera Stream Integration

> The `camera.play_stream` service may be used to send camera streams (HLS) directly to your device. This feature requires the `stream` integration and makes use of the PlayOnRoku API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `camera.play_stream` action may be used to send camera streams (HLS) directly to your device. This feature requires the [`stream` integration](/integrations/stream) and makes use of the PlayOnRoku API.
```

### Example
```yaml

> action:
>   service: camera.play_stream
>     target:
>       entity_id: camera.camera
>     data:
>       media_player: media_player.roku

Reviewer: ```suggestion
actions:
  - action: camera.play_stream
    target:
      entity_id: camera.camera
    data:
      media_player: media_player.roku
```
